1) Is there anything we can book for a special occasion?
On the flight
If you're celebrating an anniversary or birthday, why not start your holiday in style by booking Champagne and chocolates for your flight out?

If you would like to purchase Champagne and chocolates, you'll need to contact us at least 80 hours before you're due to travel. Unfortunately, we can't provide Champagne and chocolates on return flights from our long haul destinations, but you can buy Champagne on all short haul and mid haul flights.

At the hotel
If you're celebrating a special occasion, you could consider booking a room upgrade. Or whilst you're away, speak to the hotel and they might be able to arrange something extra for you.



2) How do I upgrade or add extras to my holiday?
When booking your holiday, you'll find a whole range of extras available to personalise your holiday to perfection. 

The full details of these can be found here.

These can be added at the time of your booking, if you've already booked your holiday with us and wish to upgrade to any of these, then you can do so through your Customer Account or Manage My Booking if you booked online. 

Alternatively, if you booked in a store you should visit or get in touch with your local TUI Holiday store or give us a call on 0203 636 1790.

If you have booked a holiday with a non-TUI airline such as Easyjet, you will need to add extras directly on the carrier website.


3) How old do I need to be to book a holiday?
You must be 18 years old at the time of booking and have the legal capacity and authority to book the holiday as the lead name.  

Passengers under 18 years old can travel on a package holiday with us as long as the lead name on the booking also travels on the booking and is over the age of 18.
 
Just so you know, individuals over the age of 18, and who are the lead passenger on the booking, will be held responsible for all passengers on the booking and for all payments due to us. 

Please see our Booking Conditions for more information.


4) Can I book a single room?
If a single room is available at the hotel you've chosen, you'll usually be able to select it from the Travel Options page when you're booking.

Can't find a single room? - Give us a call on 0203 451 2688 and select option 1, and we'll check the options for you. Calls from UK landlines cost the standard rate, but calls from mobiles may be higher. Check with your network provider. 


5) I'm booking a family holiday but my baby hasn't been born yet - what do I put as their initial?
If your baby isn't born when you book - and you haven't chosen a name yet - enter their name as 'Inf X' followed by their surname. You'll then need to contact us as soon as you know the name so we can change it for you, free of charge.


6) How do I book interconnecting rooms?
To find out if your chosen hotel has interconnecting rooms, take a look at the hotel details page. If they're available to book, you'll be able to select them when you get to the Travel Options page. Bear in mind, if you want interconnecting rooms, you'll need to book and pay for two of these rooms.


7) I don't live in the UK - can I book with you?
Yes, you can. 

Direct debit is only available for customers with a UK bank account. 


Egypt hotel-only bookings
If you'd like to book a hotel only stay in Egypt with us, you'll need to be a UK resident.
 


8) Can I book twin centre holidays online?
You'll find a selection of twin centre holidays on our website. If they're available, you'll see them in your search results.

If you can't find the twin centre holiday you're looking for online, please call us on 0203 451 2688 to book. Calls from UK landlines cost the standard rate, but calls from mobiles may be higher. Check with your network provider.


9) How do I add on a special request?
Once you've booked your holiday, you can make a special request by contacting us or logging in to Manage My Booking. Here you can add room preferences, for instance high floor or quiet room. You can also tell us you're celebrating a special occasion with us. like a birthday or anniversary.

We'll add the details of the request to your booking and pass them on to the hotelier.

Unfortunately, we can't guarantee we'll be able to meet your request, but the hotelier will do their best to help.


10) How do I know my booking is confirmed?
After you've made your booking, you'll see a confirmation screen that shows your booking details and reference numbers. We'd suggest you take a note of these for your reference.

We'll also send a confirmation email to the email address you provided, within 24 hours of the time you book.

If you haven't received a confirmation email, please contact us for assistance.

When you contact us, please have the following information to hand so we can search for your booking...

- Reference number, if you made note of this
- Lead passenger name
- Departure date
- Destination


11) Will I need to pay a deposit at my hotel?
Some hotels do ask for a refundable breakage deposit when you check in. It's up to the hotelier to decide whether to charge a deposit and how much this is, so it's not something that we control.


12) How do I use a promo code on your website?
If you've got a promo code, you'll be able to apply it when you get to the payment screen during the booking process.

Enter the code in the box and click Validate Code - you'll then notice the amount has been taken off the holiday price. If you have any problems entering your promo code, please contact us and we'll do our best to help.

Unfortunately, if you've already booked your holiday, we can't add any codes afterwards. Promo codes can only be used when you make a new booking.


13) Why won't the website let me enter my full name?
Our website only allows for a maximum 15 characters in the name box.

Just enter what you can and contact us so we can make a note of your full name on the system.

Just so you know, we only need your title, first name and surname. You don't have to include middle names.


14) Why's the website charging me the same price for a child and an adult?
Our website shows an average price per person, which may give the impression that you're paying the same price for a child on your booking as well as for an adult. Our child prices offer a reduction on the adult cost. 

Just so you know, child prices start when two full paying adults share the same room.

You can contact us for a full cost breakdown. 


15) How much do you charge for infants?
An infant must be aged less than 2 years on the return day of travel and must be older than 14 days for health and safety reasons. Charges for infants vary depending on the route and length of flight and will be detailed in the booking process.



16) What do I do if I get technical difficulties while I'm booking?
If your computer crashes or you see a message saying 'We are currently experiencing technical difficulties' at any point after you've entered your payment details, please contact us and we'll check whether or not the booking has been made. Please don't enter your payment information more than once.

Problems accessing the website
If you're having problems accessing the website, we'd suggest you try the following:
- Check cookies are enabled - We recommend that cookies are enabled to get the most out of the features on the TUI website
- Try deleting your internet browser history. You could also clear your cache
- Download the latest version of the web browser - if you're using an out-of-date version, if could cause problems. Just so you know, TUI can't be held liable for any software you download to your computer.


17) What are the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangement Regulations 2018?
The government and travel industry have a long history of providing protection to holidaymakers. From 1st July 2018, relevant TUI bookings will be governed by the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangement Regulations 2018. These regulations provide increased protection for consumers, for example, by ensuring the correct level of information is provided throughout the customer journey, and by making the Organiser liable for the performance of the package. If your TUI holiday is protected by the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangement Regulations 2018, you will be advised of this before you pay for your holiday. 


18) I did not receive a booking confirmation, how do I get one?
We'll send a confirmation email to the email address you provided, within 24 hours of the time you book.

If you haven't received a confirmation email, it might be worth checking your email Junk folder. If you've still not received your confirmation please contact us for assistance.

When you contact us, please have the following information to hand so we can search for your booking...

- Reference number, if you made note of this
- Lead passenger name
- Departure date
- Destination


