1) What is Advance Passenger Information?
You need to provide Advance Passenger Information (API) before you go on holiday if you're travelling with TUI. It's also called APIS, Secure Flight or e-Borders. In a nutshell, this is information from your passport that's required by the government of the country you're travelling to.

TUI also needs this information for Aviation Security purposes.

 
Flying with another airline? If your flight is with another airline then you'll need to provide your API details at check-in - you won't be able to do this before you travel.

2) How do I provide my API details?
TUI flights
Visit our secure API website to enter your details. You'll need to log in using your TUI booking reference, the surname of the lead passenger and your departure date. You'll find all of these on your booking confirmation or invoice.

If online check-in's open for your flight, you can also enter your API information during the check-in process. If you've opted for a seat upgrade, online check-in opens 14 days before you fly. If not, you can check in from seven days before.

If you prefer the human touch, pop in to one of our TUI stores with your booking reference and all of the passports from your party. That way, we can enter all of the API details for you.
 
Flights with other airlines
For flights with another airline see our FAQs on flying with other airlines for more information about providing your API for your flight.

3) I've changed my booking, do I need to resubmit my API details?
If you've made changes to your booking since providing your API details, you'll need to log in again and resubmit your API information.
 

4) What Information do I need to provide for API?
To meet API requirements, you'll need to give us the following details for everyone travelling on your booking:

For all destinations
Full name, as shown on your passport or travel document
Gender
Date of birth
Travel document type e.g. passport (P).

If you're travelling on a group passport, details for each passenger listed on the passport should be entered under the same travel document type and passport number.

Travel document number
Travel document country of issue
Travel document expiry date
Nationality

Additional information for all US destinations
Country of residence
First night address you're staying at in the USA
Redress number, if applicable

Additional information for Cuba and Mexico
Country of residence
Redress number, if one has been supplied to you by the US Department of homeland security. 

Don't know your address in the USA?
- Fly drive holidays - Please provide the name and location of the car hire company and where you plan to stop first.
- Cruises - If you're joining a cruise ship, provide the cruise ship name and the port your cruise leaves from.
- Accommodation allocated on arrival - Please provide the details of our resort office, which is:

Welcome USA
7769 West Irlo Bronson Memorial Highway
Kissimmee
Florida 34747

- Backpackers - Please give an indication of where you'll spend your first night.
- Transferring to another flight - Please give details of the departing flight number and destination.

Other travel requirements
You'll need to provide API alongside any other requirements that apply for your destination, like visas, or ESTA if you're going to the USA. If you're completing ESTA, your API information will need to match the details you give.
 
Flying with another airline? 
If you're flying with the below airlines, you'll be able to provide your API details through online check-in or at the airport.

Air Europa, Albastar, ASL Airlines France, ASL Airlines Ireland, Evelop Airlines, Germania, Norwegian, Travel Service, Volotea.

If your flight is with another airline, then you'll need to provide your API details at check-in via their own portal or at the airport if offered.


5) When do I need to provide my API details?
If you're travelling with TUI, you need to give us your API information any time from when you book, up until six hours before you're due to go.

Visit our Flight Extras website to supply your API information.
 
Booking late?
If you're booking less than four days before you travel, you'll need to provide your API at the check-in desk. Please make sure you allow more time for any extra checks.

Flights with other airlines
When you need to provide your API details varies depending on which airline you're travelling with.  If the airline still offers check-in desks at the airport, you'll be able to supply API information when you arrive at the airport.

6) Why do I need to provide API?
API is required by the border control and security authorities of various different countries. They use the details to do routine checks on the identity of passengers before they arrive in the country. It's a condition of your booking that you must provide your API information.

7) What happens to my API information?
Once you've given us your API information, it's stored securely on our system until it needs to be sent to the government authorities. The information is then transmitted through a secure network up to 72 hours before your flight is due to go, or sometimes after it's departed. After the information has been sent, it will be stored to meet API requirements and then destroyed.

Keeping your information secure
We comply with UK and EU data protection laws, so you can rest assured that your details are secure. Your API information will only be sent to authorised government agencies for border control and security purposes.

8) Which airlines do I need to provide API details for?
You'll need to provide API details for all airlines that you travel with. You can submit your API details online with us if you're travelling with TUI.

If you're travelling with any other airline, you'll usually be able to do this online - please follow the instructions on your e-ticket/confirmation email.  If the airline still offers check-in desks at the airport, you'll be able to supply API information when you arrive at the airport. 

9) My birthday is on a leap year, so how do I go about entering my API details?
If your birthday falls on a leap year, you can enter your API details by first selecting the year you were born. Once you've done this, you'll see 29th February appear as an option.

10) How do I know if you've received my API information?
When you enter your API details on our Flight Extras site you won't receive any confirmation.
 
However, you can check if your details have been saved by logging in to the website again - you should see the details you've entered saved in the fields.
 
If you can't see your API details, you'll need to add them again for all passengers and click save when you've finished.


1) What is APD?
APD (Air Passenger Duty) is a UK Government tax charged to passengers departing from a UK airport.

1) How do I book a hotel room at my UK departure airport?
Visit our Holiday Extras page for more details and to book online.

2) How do I book car parking at my UK departure airport?
Visit our Holiday Extras page for more details and to book online.

1) How can I prepare for security at the airport?
Here's a quick reminder of what you can do to help you pass through security as quickly as possible. It'll help speed things up for everyone if you take these steps while you're in the queue.

- Remove your belt, if you're wearing one, and empty your pockets (e.g. Keys, loose change) and pack these in your hand luggage.

- Remove any outdoor clothing, boots or shoes with heels, ready to place them in a tray.

- Liquids - including water and any creams, lotions, perfumes, hand sanitiser, foods, lighters etc. If possible, pack your liquids in the bag you will be checking in

- All liquids must be in containers no larger than 100ml.

- All containers must be in a single, transparent, resealable plastic bag which holds no more than a litre and measures approximately 20cm x 20cm (limited to one bag per person).

- Take your liquids bag out of your hand luggage, ready to pop it in a tray.

- Check government hand luggage restrictions at UK airports for further details, medical and dietary exceptions.

- Electronics - remove all large electrical items (laptops, tablets, e-readers, hair straighteners etc.) from your hand luggage. You'll need to get ready to place them flat in a separate tray ensuring they're not covered or on top of each other. Make sure they're charged, too.

2) Can I use an e-cigarette at the airport?
The rules around using e-cigarettes vary depending on which airport you're flying from. We recommend that you check directly with the airport.

Flights to Thailand
Please note that e-cigarettes are illegal in Thailand and may be confiscated at the airport. 


3) I'm travelling in Premium. Which airport lounge can I use?
If you're travelling Premium on a TUI Airways flight, you'll get access to one of the following lounges at our UK airports...

London Gatwick - No.1 Lounge (North terminal)
Manchester Terminal 2 - Escape Lounge
Glasgow - Sky Lounge
Birmingham - No.1 Lounge
Newcastle International - Aspire Lounge
East Midlands - Escape Lounge
London Stansted - Escape Lounge
Edinburgh - No.1 Lounge
Cardiff - Cardiff Airport Executive Lounge
Bristol - Aspire Lounge

You’ll also get Airport Lounge access at Melbourne Orlando International Airport, Florida.


1) Why did I get a Confirmation of Check-in document instead of a boarding pass when I checked in online?
If you're flying with TUI or any of the airlines listed below just to the USA, Mexico, Jamaica, Cuba, Costa Rica or Thailand you'll get a Confirmation of Check-in document which you'll need to print at home, instead of the usual boarding pass. This is because of the different regulations for travelling to these countries or travelling with another airline.

- Air Europa (flight prefix AEA)
- Albastar (flight prefix JQ)
- ASL Airlines France (flight prefix FPO)
- ASL Airlines Ireland (flight prefix ABR)
- Evelop Airlines (flight prefix EVE)
- Germania (flight prefix ST)
- Norwegian (flight prefix D8)
- Travel Service (flight prefix QS)
- TUI operated by Norwegian (flight prefix BY)
- Volotea (flight prefix VOE)

What you need to do
If you've got a Confirmation of Check-in document, it means you're checked-in, with your seat numbers and baggage confirmed. However, you'll need to go to one of the Airline bag drop desks when you get to the airport to swap your Confirmation of Check-in document for boarding passes. You'll need the boarding pass when you go through security.

If you can't print the confirmation of check-in document, please go to the Airline bag drop desk when you arrive at the airport, and you'll be given your boarding passes. 

2) Do I have to pay to check in online?

No - TUI's online check-in is completely free to use and can be accessed via our Flight Extras website. It also includes the following airlines: Smartlynx, Titan, Avion, Freebird and Sunwing. 

Flights with other airlines
Some of the partner and non-TUI airlines we use may charge you for checking in at the airport, so it is best to check in online in advance. See our other airlines FAQs for more detailed information on your flight. 


3) When does online check-in open?
Flying with TUI Airways on a TOM or BY flight number?

If you've upgraded to Premium, Extra Legroom seats or Extra Space seats, or chosen the Select Your Seat option, online check-in will open 14 days prior to your departure. If not, it'll open 48 hours prior to your departure. Just so you know, in either case, you'll need to check in for your outbound and inbound flights separately. Online check-in closes six hours before your flight departure time. If you'd like to select or upgrade your seat after you've booked, please visit Manage My Booking or the TUI app to check in for your flight.

Flying on another airline?

Online check in times can vary depending on the airline you are flying with. Please check the other airline’s website for more information on when their online check in opens.


4) How do I check in online?
If your flight has a TOM or BY flight number, online check-in's really easy to use. If you’ve upgraded to Premium, Extra Legroom seats or Extra Space seats, or chosen the Select Your Seat option, online check-in will open 14 days prior to your departure. If not, it’ll open 48 hours prior to your departure.

Just so you know, in either case, you’ll need to check in for your outbound and inbound flights separately. Online check-in closes six hours before your flight departure time.

Log in to Manage My Booking with your flight booking reference, the surname of the lead passenger and your departure date, and select 'check-in'.

If you're flying with one of our TUI partner airlines or a non-TUI airline please see our Flying with other Airlines FAQs for what to do.


5) What happens if I don't check in online?
If you don't check in online for your holiday, you'll be able to do this when you get to the airport, and we'll allocate your seats from what's remaining. 


6) I didn't check in online before my outward flight. Can I still check in online for my flight home?
If your flight has a TOM or BY flight number, yes, you'll still be able to check in online before your return flight, or you've got the option of checking in at the airport.

Online check-in closes 6 hours before departure time. Click here to access online check-in.

Once you’ve checked in you can print out or download your boarding passes onto your phone, via the TUI app.


7) I couldn't print my boarding pass when I checked in online. Can I print it later?
Yes, most airlines will allow you to reprint your boarding passes.

If you're travelling with TUI log in to the Flight Extras website and if you've already checked-in, you'll see a print button. Click this and your boarding passes will appear, ready for reprinting. 


8) Can I reprint my boarding pass if it's lost or damaged?
Yes, most airlines will allow you to reprint your boarding passes.

If you're travelling with TUI log in to the Flight Extras website and if you've already checked-in, you'll see a print button. Click this and your boarding passes will appear, ready for reprinting. You'll be able to do this up to six hours before your outward flight, or up to 25 hours before your return flight. You'll need to print each boarding pass clearly on an individual piece of A4 paper. 
 
If it's later than this and you need a new copy of your boarding passes, you can collect them from the TUI bag drop desk or at the check in desk of your airline when you arrive at the airport. The service is also available for the following airlines: 

Air Europa, Albastar, ASL Airlines France, ASL Airlines Ireland, Evelop Airlines, Germania, Norwegian, Travel Service, Volotea.


9) Can I check in online if I'm travelling with a baby?
TUI flights
Yes - little ones under 2-years-old will have their own boarding pass but won't be allocated a seat. They'll get an individual baggage allowance of 10kg which will be shown on their boarding pass. 
 
Only certain seats are available for adults travelling with a child under 2. These seats will be marked with an 'i' on the seat assignment page. If none of these seats are available, you'll need to contact us so we can look into this for you.
 
Go to online check-in


Flights with other airlines
This varies depending on who you're flying with. You'll be given details as you go through the online check in process. The same service as TUI is also available for the following airlines: 

Air Europa, Albastar, ASL Airlines France, ASL Airlines Ireland, Evelop Airlines, Germania, Norwegian, Travel Service, Volotea 


10) I'm on the My Booking page. When I click on check-in, nothing happens - what's going wrong?
Firstly, make sure that you've entered your email address in the lead customer email box at the top of the page.  This is the address that we'll use to send confirmation of your selected seats, any extras you book and any special assistance you request.

If you can't click on the Check-in button, it means that online check-in isn't open for your flight yet. Online check-in opens 48 hours before your outward flight. 
 
Please contact us if you're having difficulty checking in online.


11) Do I need to print the payment confirmation page if I've bought extras or upgrades?
TUI flights and for the following airlines: 
Air Europa, Albastar, ASL Airlines France, ASL Airlines Ireland, Evelop Airlines, Germania, Norwegian, Travel Service, Volotea. 

No, we'll send you an email confirmation to the email address you gave us on the My Booking page. It'll include details of what you've bought and the amount you've paid.