1) What is the Customer Account?
The Customer Account is your personal holiday account where you can:

- Save your holiday shortlist in one place, no matter which device you choose to shortlist on.
- See all of your TUI and First Choice bookings in one place.
- View your travel documents, pay the balance for your holiday and add any extras that you want.


2) How do I create a Customer Account?
All bookings made will also auto-create an account - this is activated through an activation link that will come through to your email account used to make the booking. You can also create an account if you do not have a booking, or have bookings already made. 

To create your account all you need to do is enter your title, name, email address and a password onto the 'Create Account' page. You will find this page here

If you already have a holiday booked, to see your current bookings in your account you must use the same email address as you used to book the holiday. 


3) How do I update my personal details in the Customer Account?
You can update your title, gender, name, address and contact number details by clicking on the 'Update Personal Details' link on the Customer Account homepage. If you update your name in the customer account, this will not update your booking.

Unfortunately, you're not able to update the email address linked with your Customer Account; if you wish to have an account with a different email address, you will have to create a new account.


4) I haven't received an activation email, what do I do?
Please check your junk or spam folder as it may be there. 
On the Customer Account sign in page, you will find a link to resend your activation email. You can find the sign in page here.
 

5) I have forgotten my password, what do I do?
On the Customer Account sign in page, you will find a link to reset your password. You can find the sign in page here.


6) I can't see all of my current holiday bookings in my account, what do I do?
Please ensure that you are listed as the lead passenger on the booking and that the name, email address, date of birth and postal address in your Customer Account, matches your booking.  
 

7) Why aren't my previous bookings showing in my account?
The Customer Account will only show previous bookings with a departure date from 1st November 2015. 


8) Where can I find out more about holiday extras?
On the booking overview page in your Customer Account, you will find links to available holiday extras.


9) Can I cancel or amend my holiday through the Customer Account?
If you booked online
You can find details of how to amend or cancel your booking on the booking overview page within your customer account.

If you booked in a retail store
Please pop in to the store that booked your holiday, to find your store please use the store finder

If you booked over the phone
Please call 0203 451 2688


10) I want to unsubscribe from marketing emails, how do I do this?
If you wish to unsubscribe, you can find an unsubscribe link at the bottom of all our marketing emails.


11) I booked my holiday in a TUI Holiday Store; can I use the Customer Account?
If you booked your holiday through a TUI Holiday Store, you can still use the Customer Account to view all of your bookings and travel documents, as well as available extras.

You can make payments towards your holiday using Manage My Booking.

In order to amend or cancel your booking you will need to contact your local TUI Holiday Store. To find your Holiday Store please use the store finder


12) What if I don’t want to use an account?
You choose whether to activate it or not via the email activation link. 